Sandy Peresie: Hello.
Sandy Peresie: Can you hear me.
Sandy Peresie: Hey,
Ian: A good, thanks.
Ian: Oh, apart from being full cold, but yeah.
Sandy Peresie: Oh, you got a cold.
Yeah.
Ian: Well, not down here.
Sandy Peresie: Failure.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah. Oh, I didn't know that.
Ian: Yeah.
Sandy Peresie: Those are the worst.
Sandy Peresie: Boy.
Sandy Peresie: Not good.
Sandy Peresie: Don't go anywhere.
Sandy Peresie: near where you are.
Ian: Pretty much non existent Millie.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah I Blanca a couple of what group.
Sandy Peresie: Book groups on Goodreads and
Sandy Peresie: That's one of the one of the places that seems to have a handle on it.
Ian: Yeah, it does. That's, that's pretty good. That's one of the advantages, being a remote location.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, for sure.
Sandy Peresie: For sure. Our numbers are spiking because of the because of the election, I'm sure.
Yeah.
Sandy Peresie: You know,
Sandy Peresie: Like, come on.
Sandy Peresie: Open up and
Sandy Peresie: Deal was that you talking
Neil Beesley: Help. If I had a microphone. There you go.
Neil Beesley: Cold weather so
Neil Beesley: Yes.
Neil Beesley: It's an issue.
Ian: Yeah, that's not part down here. It's all right.
Sandy Peresie: That's great. I always want to go to Australia.
Ian: Good, so lovely spot.
Yeah.
Sandy Peresie: I just like the accent.
Ian: Think. Mine's more English than
Ian: I come from the north of England.
Sandy Peresie: I think so, yeah.
Ian: I told a god is where I come from.
Ian: But I've been here for 35 years now.
Neil Beesley: Wow. Any haven't lost the accent.
Ian: Oh yeah, he can take the boy out of Newcastle.
Neil Beesley: I've been here for 21 years in the US.
Ian: Yeah. Well, he's still got some oxygen from somewhere.
Yeah.
Neil Beesley: Stone of crows.
Ian: So can I chill.
Ian: Yeah.
Ian: Most of these are
Ian: Immigrants anyway.
GillianHannington: inbred
GillianHannington: Small
Sandy Peresie: Like you said it was rural
Open Mainframe Project Community: Hi this is kept this joining
Ian: Me.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I remember to join as the host
Ian: I saw a little thing flashed up on my screen as
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well,
Open Mainframe Project Community: So my day is
I've
Open Mainframe Project Community: Been successful at that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And it's
Open Mainframe Project Community: On time here.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Are we waiting for anybody. Should we get started.
Sandy Peresie: I thought I saw Randall coming in.
Ian: But he's on he's on mute. I think
Sandy Peresie: They're
Sandy Peresie: Okay, he's got his phone. He's got his phone call. Okay.
Sandy Peresie: Didn't have the phone before
Randall Ness: Yeah, no, I'm here now.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Hey, Bob.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You like to give
Open Mainframe Project Community: You can give us a good thought to start our meeting this time.
bobmcCormack: No, no, no, done enough
bobmcCormack: I suggest
bobmcCormack: I know when I picked. So let's have Ian on the podium.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That was
Open Mainframe Project Community: The guy in Finding Nemo. The Seagull. I know. And I the turtle. I don't know. That was kind of what I just got from there. I've seen it yet. It's good. That was those that was enough to start a meeting for the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Great. Hey, thanks everybody for joining appreciate your being here, Andrea, I think you're taking minutes tonight.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I apologize on my tardiness of preparing an agenda, but we did talk through a little bit
Open Mainframe Project Community: agenda for today. So how about if I just outlined that briefly for you here. What I thought we talked about open to suggestions. If there's other things we had to talk about
Open Mainframe Project Community: One, I wanted to give you an update to
Open Mainframe Project Community: Go ahead.
Andrea Orth: Issues 68 is
Randall Ness: Full of potential items for
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me good. So we'll put that as an item. I'm going to start first by talking a little bit about environment.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Randall, and I had some discussion today with folks from by calm infinity and
I can give you an update.
Open Mainframe Project Community: On that and Randall.
Open Mainframe Project Community: can join in.
Open Mainframe Project Community: on that as well. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think if we
Open Mainframe Project Community: Start there. The other thing that I wanted a little bit of
Open Mainframe Project Community: Update for myself on
Open Mainframe Project Community: Because I've been out of touch for a little bit. It's just where we're at. On
Open Mainframe Project Community: The data and I'm a machine and progress on those points and then maybe Andrea I'll jump to issue 68
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, I'm logging on here to go find that
Open Mainframe Project Community: Other. Any other comments on agenda items that we ought to be
Open Mainframe Project Community: Discussing
Open Mainframe Project Community: If not, then maybe we'll just start there. That's okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Um,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Thank you for Andrea agenda item.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So on the
Randall Ness: Environment thing.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We've Randall, and I had a discussion today with the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Owners of Viacom infinity.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Home and I'm forgetting times last name.
Randall Ness: Comma Moto moto
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, Tom.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Clearly is supporting
Open Mainframe Project Community: Open mainframe projects.
Open Mainframe Project Community: From his company hasn't like six or seven
Open Mainframe Project Community: Of the open mainframe projects on his
Open Mainframe Project Community: On the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Icon affinity system.
Open Mainframe Project Community: The sense was that
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think that we have kind of
Open Mainframe Project Community: Taken on a bigger
Open Mainframe Project Community: We've had our ambition is larger and our community is growing faster than probably most of the other systems involved the other projects involved. So it's caused a little bit of a
Open Mainframe Project Community: NX they're wondering how long this goes and and what the what their needs are for supporting us
Open Mainframe Project Community: I explained a time that I'm involved in some of the ongoing discussions, I'm having internally and IBM are about
Open Mainframe Project Community: The need for these kinds of environments for open projects for places people can come and collaborate on systems and and why that's important that for the platform for the growth for the software for the developers.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And and some of that involve what's developed out of that a little bit.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is an understanding the one of the key resources that are lacking in any place that dedicate some time to these kinds of efforts is system programmer time
Open Mainframe Project Community: That you know the number of system programmers that understands EOS is is fewer than the number of developers, by far.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And they're critical to maintaining the CEOs shared environment, which makes the environment, low cost for and highly stable because that's why the that's how it's been built. So it's that aspect of shared environments for people that that seems to touch a nerve and a number of instances.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What I have suggested
Open Mainframe Project Community: What's, what's coming out of this is kind of a sense that what's needed is we need
Open Mainframe Project Community: Perhaps we need to think about suggesting another open mainframe project separate from Geneva ERS that deals with the need for CEOs as a paths.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Platform as a service offering and have within that tooling that can alleviate the burdens put on system programmers for administrating environments, for example.
Open Mainframe Project Community: If, if somebody like Tom was willing to dedicate some of his machine. Time to up in mainframe projects, there should be a place that
Open Mainframe Project Community: People can come and sign up for an account and get a small environment platform as a service environment.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But it doesn't require heavy system programmer capabilities they can set parameters around how you know what sort of resources can be consumed, what sorts of things can be installed and used
Open Mainframe Project Community: In that environment limitations that don't pose security risk or issues to the performance of the platform stability on the platform.
Open Mainframe Project Community: If you have that sort of that sort of configuration that could be put on these machines, then it would open up more capabilities for for people that are willing to dedicate some resources environments to be able to do that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So all of that is the
Open Mainframe Project Community: feedback we're getting from Tom today is all in
Open Mainframe Project Community: Line with the sensitivity that we're talking about there at the end of the discussion, it came down to you know him saying I can't
Open Mainframe Project Community: bear this burden myself with with, you know, the size of of what you guys are trying to drive and the length of time that appears you're trying to drive things
Open Mainframe Project Community: So I invited him to join in the discussion with me.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And others about how we go solve these problems.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So after
Open Mainframe Project Community: It leaves us a little bit in a
Open Mainframe Project Community: limbo face it. We didn't quite get clarity about you know exactly what they can provide. And how long they can provide it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But there was a sense that you know we are definitely hitting on some problems that are critical to to what we're trying to do in the open mainframe project.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And it's good to have that experience. It's good to have that feedback. It's good to have you know honesty from people like Tom and others about where we need to go solve these problems and the ability to influence the conversations
Open Mainframe Project Community: Randall, would you add anything to that is that
Randall Ness: Well, let's see, you know, in our, in our discussion. He started out by saying that he was hoping we could provide some documentation for the open source software.
Randall Ness: Designation because I mean his first concern was that he had no idea what what our software was or if he was even licensed to have it on this machine. So I'm just kind of wondering maybe we should follow through that without any way.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, that's a good point. Randall there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Was there was some
Open Mainframe Project Community: feeling about that and maybe we need to make that more clear.
Randall Ness: On Geneva year s.org right
Open Mainframe Project Community: After thinking, well, I mean,
Randall Ness: Certainly, that wouldn't hurt that wouldn't hurt, but just I guess just to to make him feel more comfortable with what we're doing. We should provide him with something that says, here we are an official open source project. And this is, you know, our background and
Randall Ness: Just let them know that it's okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And that's
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's okay, to follow up with Randall, I can do that as
Open Mainframe Project Community: Part of my ongoing discussions with
Open Mainframe Project Community: Them, I was finally taking your point a little bit differently.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That our blog didn't answer if he went to Geneva urs.org
Open Mainframe Project Community: He probably picked up people at sounded to me as if he picked up our Wikipedia entry.
Randall Ness: And so
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, I think there's probably an edit that we should be making some updates that we ought to be making their make that clear because that's a
Open Mainframe Project Community: independent source.
Open Mainframe Project Community: independent source but also maybe making a little bit more clear.
Open Mainframe Project Community: In some way on
Randall Ness: Geneva ers.org
Open Mainframe Project Community: So, you know, some of that that content that he was asking for it sounds like to me.
Randall Ness: Yes.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What else did you take away from that random
Randall Ness: What. Um, let's see. So obviously he's interested in
Randall Ness: Seeing what kind of synergy. He can have with us such that eventually, it could turn into something that would help him.
Randall Ness: Capitalize on having offering us the surface.
Randall Ness: Eventually helped his business.
Randall Ness: He mentioned long tail investments, and this is something that this so he's willing to make investments, but he wants to make sure that there's something eventually in it for his company which is understandable.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me, let me add to this, but in a later discussion I had with him later this afternoon.
Open Mainframe Project Community: He said he was very early on they had pioneered a bunch of the open source on
The Linux.
Open Mainframe Project Community: MongoDB and
Open Mainframe Project Community: Java early on and those kinds of things.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And he said that he's taken those into general managers of IBM say hey, you need to be more focused on open source on
Open Mainframe Project Community: The Linux and he said he's our responses from that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So,
Randall Ness: Having his added
Open Mainframe Project Community: That we're now moving to have a similar conversation about z OS is a useful voice to to express what we need in that space as well.
Randall Ness: Yeah.
Randall Ness: I didn't have any other comments. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Excellent. Any questions team that it's a little bit of an update for you.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think one question that isn't being asked. BUT SO WE DIDN'T GET A LOT OF CLARITY about
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know what they can offer to us what we can use
Open Mainframe Project Community: Our sense from Randall I post processing is there still things that we can be advancing we're learning things by what we've done on the platform. I thank them very much for what they've done to date because it's just helping us learn
Open Mainframe Project Community: As we're going through the process. And that's very helpful to us.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So I think there's still things that we continue to use the environment for such as we have and will continue to clarify with them. What
Open Mainframe Project Community: What they feel comfortable with and and
Open Mainframe Project Community: Where
Open Mainframe Project Community: They feel like they're we're asking for more than
Randall Ness: They're able to offer.
Randall Ness: Okay, yeah, yeah. Near the end of the call kip have any came in and then it sounded like he was still planning on setting up the Linux machine or any thing saying that they wouldn't they weren't going to do that.
Randall Ness: Now he did
Open Mainframe Project Community: I thought that same thing
Random
Randall Ness: Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay.
Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, thanks for that. Um, can I give an update. Then for my own information on Sandy and I know I've gotten a little bit from Randall that Sandy from you on Randall, give me a little update on the data side of things that you've been working on.
Sandy Peresie: I can tell you a little bit about some of the stuff you know Randall, and I worked for a little bit today.
Sandy Peresie: On getting one of the reference data files up to the mainframe.
Sandy Peresie: And what we found out is that
You
Sandy Peresie: When you load those up their Mac files. I don't have a Mac. I have a Windows. And so I'm I've been trying to figure out a way to change the Mac I'm files to Windows files, um, you know, and, and in process. I'm trying to mount
Sandy Peresie: A tribe on my, on my own bow to, you know, and it's not going fast.
Sandy Peresie: Let me put it that way but
Sandy Peresie: I'm certainly learning a lot like
Sandy Peresie: Um, you know, I thought there's a there's a Doss to Unix and then a Unix to Mac.
Sandy Peresie: Or Linux and Unix and a Unix
Sandy Peresie: To docile
Sandy Peresie: Um, I was looking to use that
Sandy Peresie: But it's becoming a little bit more difficult like thought it would be. Um, but I'll still keep I mean I'll keep plugging away at it.
Sandy Peresie: So, Bob, I know that I'm gonna let you talk about the stuff that you've been doing with Randall, because I have a feeling you're gonna run into the same problem, and maybe you've already cracked us
Sandy Peresie: Not um
So,
Sandy Peresie: Um, do you wanna weigh in here at all.
bobmcCormack: Um,
bobmcCormack: I haven't had any issues moving
Randall Ness: On to the GitHub site.
bobmcCormack: From windows.
bobmcCormack: So that's not a problem. I haven't got a Mac and moving stuff from
Randall Ness: GitHub.
Across to sauce.
bobmcCormack: We've got
bobmcCormack: A conversion process in place and that seemed to work.
OK.
bobmcCormack: So, both for data and for members of a repository. So, no, I'm
bobmcCormack: I'm not in the same ballpark as you
Randall Ness: Well, I think that the
Sandy Peresie: Virginia data that you
Randall Ness: Downloaded yeah
Sandy Peresie: For fun data world.
Sandy Peresie: Yes, in Mac format.
bobmcCormack: I put it down onto my windows and
bobmcCormack: Send one of the zip files up to
bobmcCormack: Viacom, and that went into USS I did an unzip there. And then I copied the files across into sauce using a sauce utility with a conversion parameter. And that seemed look
Randall Ness: Okay.
bobmcCormack: Look like normal.
bobmcCormack: Spreadsheet data with
bobmcCormack: Comma Separated
Sandy Peresie: Huh.
Ian: The only difference for the mark is a new line at the end.
Right.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah.
Randall Ness: I think Windows has character turn line feed Unix has only line feed back has only carriage return
Sandy Peresie: Right, right. So I was trying to get it.
Sandy Peresie: To be a carriage return line seed.
Sandy Peresie: On the file because when we load it, it's going in all this one record.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, you know, all the reference data is going in this one record. So, um, you know, it's trying to get it over to the right. Um, you know, carriage return line feed,
Sandy Peresie: Prospect on my computer. So I could upload it through FTP so
Open Mainframe Project Community: One, you know, one aspect of this that Steve brown helped me with a couple of years ago was. And I don't remember where it fit in here but you can set in the UNIX system services side of things you can set an ISO
Open Mainframe Project Community: Encoding parameter on the file structure.
Randall Ness: And
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't know if I remember correctly, exactly how to do that. I do have a
Open Mainframe Project Community: A
Open Mainframe Project Community: A link to a WebEx video where Steve was explaining this to she watches and ME, SANDY I might be able to share that with you and Randall, but maybe just with you. To begin with, that might be helpful in some portion of this space because I think that does help.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Can help in some piece of this
Sandy Peresie: That's possible. But again, I gotta
Sandy Peresie: I gotta get a shared partition and mounted drive and all this stuff. I gotta work through that issue so
Open Mainframe Project Community: It'll be a little bit tiring it I don't
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't think that you had to, I think that when you got the files up to do is if you're in the UNIX system services side of CEOs, you can specify the file type and it knows how to handle these kinds of issues.
Never give up.
Randall Ness: If I'm thinking about it.
Sandy Peresie: Okay, um,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me um let me give you the link to that video.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And we'll see if that if it gives such well we can cut down on this that might help us.
Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, yeah.
Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So how about if I drop right into Andrea suggestion on the issue 18 has the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Basic outstanding agenda.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Andrea, you had pull requests.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We still have an issue with
Open Mainframe Project Community: Committed and approve.
On merge. Is that right,
Andrea Orth: Bob took care of that today.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Oh, excellent.
Very good.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think we're up next with in and a workbench update
Ian: Yeah. Just gonna find the mute button.
Ian: workbench is going quite well.
Ian: I have a
Ian: Postgres workbench that
Will
Randall Ness: Accept
Ian: workbench XML and import it. And I can
Ian: Create views.
Ian: activate them most things seem to be
Ian: Ticking along
Ian: I'm also creating
Ian: Some
Ian: Postgres SQL scripts, so that I can
Ian: populate the database on the Sonics machine. Once we get there with the necessary tables and data and store procedures so that we can connect this new workbench into it and I know play away in our new playpen
Ian: And find out what's wrong with it. I think there will be lots of issues occur when we first connected
Ian: But I'm trying to minimize them, but there is only little me doing it. I'm
Ian: Trying to
Ian: Involve but
Ian: He will get there so
Ian: So that's where I am. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What's your sense in that's very good progress. What's your sense if your outline your, your biggest suspicion about the problem spaces.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What would be the, the biggest parts because those trips
Ian: Um, the, the stored procedures if I have not tested all of the scenarios, creating views and saving them and importing them.
Ian: Have not really done anything to do with format views yet.
Ian: But the basic situations of creating views.
Ian: That activating them seem to rework seem to work. Okay.
Yeah.
Ian: Exporting from this database into workbench XML and so that we can put it onto the mainframe. I think there's a case sensitivity issue and that the the XML that gets generated has all the Tag Names and lowercase. I don't know if that'll be acceptable.
Ian: Okay, but that's just a
Ian: minor issue to fix up
Open Mainframe Project Community: So if I were to restate that that's helpful. The, the core issue of being able to, you know, log in and create things new in the database and activate that is something that
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is more solid when you go outside of that that quarter of core functionality to start doing other kinds of things that hang off of that that start to require they require the stored procedures that becomes
Very yeah
Ian: Yeah, we need some users to actually give this thing.
Ian: A bashing
Ian: And not done where it fails, so that I can fix them at the moment, I'm just blundering along fixing things as I find them and things that I think I need to do, whereas
Ian: The real user doing things or real tested trying to find out what's working, what's not working.
Ian: Is what's required
Open Mainframe Project Community: But can I ask this, maybe this is a dangerous question that everybody knows the answer to, but
Open Mainframe Project Community: If somebody wanted to set up on their own machine Postgres and and
Open Mainframe Project Community: And do something on their own machine. Is that possible to do at this point over
Ian: It is, yes.
Ian: It certainly is. I
Ian: Have the code is not a you can't get it from GitHub, but I can give you a
Ian: deployable Java executable.
Ian: And I can help you lead you through the the business of creating once you've got Postgres installed, how to get the database up and running.
Ian: In fact, I'm creating it so that the command line, you can just basically run a command line, and it will do it for you.
Ian: And then you can log in.
Ian: So that's what I'm
Ian: Trying to get at the moment.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So we could. So just linking back around work I did two months ago on working on unlimited an evaluation license from, you know, the IBM
Open Mainframe Project Community: The IBM dash safir GitHub sites.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think we do have permission. So there's two ways that we could go after. If people needed to get the binary, I think, one would be that we can share just a very temporary box you can invite people into box. The IBM box environment and that the links expire after limited period of time.
Open Mainframe Project Community: To give them a downloadable executable. Or we could go further. If we wanted to and put them out as the safir IBM safir evaluation copy executable would be another way to get the executable to people if we wanted to.
Ian: Know, one thing I need to do is to remove the DB two databases bc paths.
Ian: Because of licensing were unsure if we can really release that
Ian: Which seems a bit odd, because I'd be to the TV to
Ian: Clients studio contains JT BC and that's free to where
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, and actually in as you bring that up, Randall, there was a we not want to follow back up with many about this because he did ask a question on just another route for the JD bc driver today.
Randall Ness: Yeah, I'm not technical enough in that area to understand what he was saying, but had something to do with the type three driver. Does that ring a bell in
Ian: Um, I think the the levels of conformance to Jenny BC.
Ian: But it
Ian: Should be
Ian: Fairly straightforward to remove the DB to thing.
Ian: Okay.
Ian: But our initial given that we've got a license. We can we can share things we can
Ian: make this thing work with a Postgres.
Ian: And the BBC thing just take I'll just take out the jar file and have the DVD JT BC and
Ian: And as long as you don't try and connect a DVD. You'll be fine. Well,
Open Mainframe Project Community: So that's good. And so I guess I'd say if if if there's some way that the rest of us could be helpful in that process and
Randall Ness: Let us know.
Right.
Ian: If anybody wants to volunteer as being a guinea pig and have it on the machine, let me know and I'll work with you to get it on there.
Ian: And that will be useful for
Ian: Me.
Ian: And I suspect we should start
Ian: We all we could
Ian: Start to create GitHub issues on the workbench, even though the workbench is not actually in GitHub yet.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes. Yep.
Ian: And so we can raise the issue there and put them through the process and I can fix them and release new versions of the workbench and the code will catch up.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, that's great. And we could also I might also add we should I would suggest that if, if we take some notes as we're working with you to install it the first time that becomes the basis for a repeatable process that also we could have on GitHub. So becomes the you know the installation.
Ian: Pieces.
Ian: So, so yeah, looking for volunteers, stick your hand up if you want to
Randall Ness: Get a copy in
Ian: Postgres on the machine. It should run on Unix as well.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, so there's a sandy there's a good first issue.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Maybe, maybe, maybe kind of deep, but
Open Mainframe Project Community: You could trust them.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Fairly deep that if they if they wanted to. They don't have to learn code there an end user to install and many things.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah. Very true, very true. We can put it out there as a good first issue.
Sandy Peresie: Um, I haven't gotten to the while we give you the update on that other thing.
Sandy Peresie: When you're when you actually get there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think maybe we're ready when you go ahead with that now Sandy. I think that's good. Anything else you may
Andrea Orth: Hang on.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sorry.
Andrea Orth: Go ahead and drop which repository, would we be opening the issues in
Andrea Orth: This question.
Ian: We were going to create a workbench repository. So I will put them in there.
Andrea Orth: Okay.
Andrea Orth: And I'll want to install it locally on my machine. Whenever we can work out fine.
Ian: Cool.
Ian: So, I mean, they will organize a time free just about whenever really
Open Mainframe Project Community: And then I was going to look here under our
Open Mainframe Project Community: Under repositories under
Open Mainframe Project Community: Me and other repositories. We were going to make. Yes, we're going to make the workbench repository. So I need Andrew either you or I'd have to probably reach out to john martek
Open Mainframe Project Community: And say john are ready.
Randall Ness: To make the intro positive
Andrea Orth: Oh, is there anything other than just sending him an issue going
Open Mainframe Project Community: Probably not. We have
Open Mainframe Project Community: So under the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Under the community TASC
Open Mainframe Project Community: We have the repos. Yes, we have. And then
Competitors
Open Mainframe Project Community: We have the check marks as to who
Andrea Orth: Right.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We're supposed to have access. So I think book with both of those is what he needs.
bobmcCormack: Good. Keep on that, don't we really need to create a repo in IBM SAFA and position the
workbench.
bobmcCormack: Software their first for scanning or we just haven't yet downloadable
Open Mainframe Project Community: So,
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think, I think we're, we're starting Bob. Good question. I think we're starting with the repo in Geneva ers. But that's only for issues.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It. Well, I can't get any source code right now. But when we go to the source code, you're exactly right. We will have to go that route of the IBM safir route to have it scam first
Open Mainframe Project Community: But I think we're just opening up the end of the year is workbench repository to track issues.
Randall Ness: And the install instructions.
Randall Ness: To begin with,
Open Mainframe Project Community: It all will be doing there.
Ian: Yeah. And, and I would like to be able to get the code out there.
Ian: In the not too distant future. Yeah, no.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That'd be great. Wonderful.
Randall Ness: Great progress.
Open Mainframe Project Community: If there was nothing else on this. I want to go back to Sandy, for a moment, you
Open Mainframe Project Community: You are going to make a comment. Sandy.
Randall Ness: Kind of
Sandy Peresie: Just that I am, I spent a couple hours.
Sandy Peresie: You know couple, couple of mornings I guess with Ray and we went over the documents and he was going to clean that up and get that out to me so it's ready to be reviewed and forth into the into the repository. Where do you, you would probably want to connect it also to the
Sandy Peresie: To the Geneva urs how we work.
Sandy Peresie: Um,
Randall Ness: Website.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, so, um, as soon as
Sandy Peresie: As soon as he sends it to me. Um, I'll have to put it out there somewhere.
So, so
Open Mainframe Project Community: Good. Just to clarify, mature world so everyone's on the same page. This is basically a getting started document for becoming a member of the community. Right.
Sandy Peresie: Let's say onboarding yeah
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, so
Open Mainframe Project Community: Unity. So it seems to me, it should go under the Community.
Randall Ness: Repo
Randall Ness: Would be a place for that to
Go.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And since you have it as a standalone document. Why make it
Open Mainframe Project Community: Standalone getting started.
Randall Ness: Or
Randall Ness: You know onboarding whatever
Open Mainframe Project Community: Whatever the name is what we'd want to link to it. I would think from the readme document.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay right up front, people can say, hey, here's how to contribute, there's a there's a section in the readme right now that is contributing actually maybe in fact we are to folks that contributed document.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is it's about contributing code. But that's fairly wide and that's long ways down the road. So maybe we're replacing the contributing document with what you've got, adding that contributing code point to the very bottom of the document in some way.
Sandy Peresie: Okay.
Sandy Peresie: Um,
Sandy Peresie: Okay. And then once it gets out there, then maybe Andrea can can put a link on the website.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes, that'd be great.
Sandy Peresie: Okay. And then, I will send that also to Fatima, who is our, our South Africa.
Sandy Peresie: Recruit um and asked her to go through and because she hasn't signed up yet either. Um, but around that.
Sandy Peresie: I still think we have a
Sandy Peresie: Step that has to be done for
Sandy Peresie: Both Neil and I'm Ray because they are not on the project.
Sandy Peresie: Don't know what that step is, and I've got to add it to the document.
Neil Beesley: So, yeah.
Neil Beesley: Yeah for definite yeah we've
Randall Ness: We've been
Neil Beesley: Had a few go rounds on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I was supposed to
Open Mainframe Project Community: Play.
Open Mainframe Project Community: With me
Sandy Peresie: Okay so so well. What I've done is I put in the document that you know open an issue to ask to be added to the project.
Sandy Peresie: Okay. And then on if we if that's fine. And people can just open the issue. And when you get to it. You get to it that, that's fine. But, you know, we might want to think about more than one person being able to do that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: As well. So I see Paul
Open Mainframe Project Community: I see Neil is part of the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Rest email group.
Sandy Peresie: Right.
With
Open Mainframe Project Community: Neil, are you, your email is listed as Neil
Open Mainframe Project Community: At
IBM
Open Mainframe Project Community: Maybe it should
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is that ibm.com
Neil Beesley: Oh, no, no.
Neil Beesley: It's
Neil Beesley: ibm.com but I
Open Mainframe Project Community: Am back on.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, just
Randall Ness: I don't have access
Neil Beesley: To email at the moment because he's a contractor kip
Randall Ness: Contractors don't have the US. Great. Thank you.
Randall Ness: But I did.
Neil Beesley: I did lose email access
Neil Beesley: late this afternoon, and I'm still trying to get that back. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, so what does it. How do we know that is not part of the. Is it is it in GitHub, that you don't have access to the repos. Is that what it means.
Sandy Peresie: If you look under projects.
Sandy Peresie: You look under people in the project Geneva us he's not there.
Sandy Peresie: He gets there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, so I think what that is.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sandy is probably another discussion with john martek go back and answer that question. And I find it. I find it fairly effective if I, if we do just set up a conversation with john
Open Mainframe Project Community: To ask him these kinds of
Open Mainframe Project Community: Questions is more effective than
Open Mainframe Project Community: Trying to have him write something
Open Mainframe Project Community: To us
Randall Ness: Well, why don't we
Randall Ness: You know, you could schedule his time.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You have a link
Randall Ness: Calendar.
Sandy Peresie: Don't think so.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, whether
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's in an email from him.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I will send you an email.
Open Mainframe Project Community: With an at the bottom of the email.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Signature has his calendar.
Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I think that's probably the easiest way.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Get something set up with him. Okay.
Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Next topic then
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think it was on to yo performance engine. Okay.
GillianHannington: Yes, so we're still we're still working on testing and changes we did for 64 bit support and will be particularly focusing on
GillianHannington: Customer exits.
GillianHannington: Which need to
GillianHannington: Be upgraded for the 64 bit support. And that's still ongoing, because there's a there's quite a lot of customer customer. Customer exits there.
GillianHannington: And we've also. So for the latest version. The, the extra reports that you get generated it's significantly changed from previous versions. So
GillianHannington: So we decided that we should press document.
GillianHannington: You know what the what is actually displaying it's much more. It's much easier to understand the new report.
GillianHannington: But it's still need some documentation to explain it. So we've been working on that.
GillianHannington: And also documentation.
GillianHannington: Describing
GillianHannington: The extra job parameters.
GillianHannington: And what else also one of our team members is retiring. So we've been making sure
GillianHannington: To get knowledge transfer, particularly of
GillianHannington: X IC K x IC K exit and the customer exits said he's got knowledge of
GillianHannington: And that's, that's pretty much been the last two weeks.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's very good.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Can I ask
Open Mainframe Project Community: Kind of a different topic. He didn't mention there yet. We're just to update me on the latest thinking around us. We've decided that on if I'm, if I remember correctly.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And not carry forward the DB to V Sam read approach is that right that we we decided that we should not be releasing that as part of our open source code.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Just because those data formats in dB to have changed for underlying for the newer versions of dB to and we'd rather go a different route.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Right, yeah.
GillianHannington: Well, I think that's, I mean that's an IBM
GillianHannington: It's not generally release knowledge that the the the internals of
GillianHannington: DB to and how it works with the sound. So that's proprietary knowledge there so that we can. We can't release that
Open Mainframe Project Community: You're right. And just, just so you just give you a little bit of history on that job. It was it was generally no knowledge when it was coated
Randall Ness: Doug
Open Mainframe Project Community: Doug going out and he
Open Mainframe Project Community: Read the manuals, which were available publicly
Open Mainframe Project Community: In 1995 Randall. I don't know.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And and so but
Open Mainframe Project Community: Since then, you know, it's just not something that is done very much. So what
GillianHannington: Does manuals and now not publicly available.
GillianHannington: It's as if they've they've decided that they're not going to release that information.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, it's probably because Doug
Neil Beesley: And the former
Neil Beesley: Things change and it's
Randall Ness: You know, it becomes a an overhead to
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes.
Neil Beesley: Putting that information out. There's probably some other things we could do.
Yesterday,
Open Mainframe Project Community: When you speak to that for a moment. What, what's your sense about
Open Mainframe Project Community: WHAT THE OTHER THINGS ARE WE COULD DO
Neil Beesley: Something that could actually translate
Neil Beesley: I don't know whether Randall wants to
Neil Beesley: preempt anything. I'm gonna say here, but
Neil Beesley: Something that could translate to different databases as well, would be the unload database, the high speed database and in terms of DP to there's a high speed database unload yes
Neil Beesley: And if we could harness that then we don't need to
Randall Ness: Either the
Neil Beesley: Organization has dB to or they don't have it or they have add a bass or they don't have it or they have you know idea mess or they don't have it. And we just latch onto the exit that comes with a product and say, hey,
Neil Beesley: Unload some data for us into memory.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Feed feed feed me as you feed the data to me right
Neil Beesley: Yeah, in memory, not not land with
Neil Beesley: Data, but yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's all we would basically be replacing
Open Mainframe Project Community: GV V, Mr dv.
Open Mainframe Project Community: With the unloading joints.
Neil Beesley: Yeah, but we just
Neil Beesley: Very high level because I've only spent about 90 minutes reading up on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So, no, no, it's good, I think.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That and I didn't mean to take it down. You've got a lot of stuff going on here. I just thought maybe I'd asked that question around that one piece of it because I think it's relevant for for continuing discussions here so that's
Randall Ness: Yes. Okay. Like, I guess my idea for how we're going to do this as
Randall Ness: Long term, we would try to do something with the high performance on LOAD Utility as Neil had suggested
Randall Ness: And we do want to extract out the existing code from our
Randall Ness: From our source repository, so that this doesn't end up in the the open source all the stuff that describes what the underlying V San files look like
Randall Ness: That hasn't been as high priority is getting some of the other things done for our customers. So right now the current safir version has all that stuff in it. We were thinking for the short term for anything for open source we would just
Randall Ness: Remove that entry from the code table. So the workbench wouldn't see it and then people wouldn't be able to select it in the open source version, or at least the
Randall Ness: The workbench that we're putting out there that's maybe not quite open source yet, but we are contributors to start playing with it.
Randall Ness: Okay, excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any other comments, questions from anybody else on this topic.
Okay, excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Hey, Bob.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes, Mike, you have to speak again here.
bobmcCormack: Oh, good. I
Open Mainframe Project Community: Infrastructure update
bobmcCormack: Yeah, sure. I'm
Randall Ness: Acting on Randalls instructions.
bobmcCormack: We need to look at how we can synchronize work within get and work with an RTC at the source code level. So we've done a test where
bobmcCormack: We've created a an RTC
bobmcCormack: Workspace. And then we've done a get clone onto the same machine and then we've manually copied the parts across assemble macros.
Randall Ness: Copy, etc.
bobmcCormack: From the get clone directory into the RTC workspace and then we've checked the RTC workspace back into RTC and also delivered it and then we've looked at it in the stream with an RTC and that looks fine. No conversion issues and the
Randall Ness: Data reflects what
Was
bobmcCormack: In
Randall Ness: The GitHub.
bobmcCormack: SEM instance
bobmcCormack: So that's pleasing. It's a manual process because of the different folder structures.
bobmcCormack: And part names, but maybe every
Randall Ness: Time we can come up with the
bobmcCormack: Script. So there's that I'm still getting issues, trying to do a good client using Yes hi john Viacom
bobmcCormack: I'll get that fixed. One day the GV be liberal
bobmcCormack: Repository in Geneva.
bobmcCormack: ERS is now merged into the master branch and thank you for the person that committed it approved it rather
So that's done.
bobmcCormack: We did strike an issue with spark.
bobmcCormack: Because the initial
bobmcCormack: Zoom.
bobmcCormack: Platform for spark was discontinued the software product was discontinued by IBM and the product itself is now.
bundled with
bobmcCormack: IBM open data analytics.
bobmcCormack: Zed.
bobmcCormack: Which is a priced product.
bobmcCormack: is unfortunate.
So,
bobmcCormack: Lead that one would you keep
bobmcCormack: By sent you the name of the product owner, maybe there might be some synergy down the track. I don't know.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So, so, Bob.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I like that. And I saw your email have been able to act.
Open Mainframe Project Community: On that what
Open Mainframe Project Community: What would
Open Mainframe Project Community: You suggest, I say, how would
Open Mainframe Project Community: Attack this discussion.
bobmcCormack: Yeah. Um, I don't know how populace back
bobmcCormack: On sources. Maybe they could be desperate for some proof of concept or some
bobmcCormack: Something they could ship themselves. I don't know. Or they could provide a
bobmcCormack: Portion of spark to you or
bobmcCormack: In open systems.
bobmcCormack: Maybe just need to explore the envelope there.
bobmcCormack: I don't know if there's anything from it.
bobmcCormack: Because you could say will spark itself is open source. So why is IBM putting it inside a prize product. It should maybe be still separate and then
bobmcCormack: Usable so
bobmcCormack: This, I don't see a
bobmcCormack: Golden yeah
Open Mainframe Project Community: No, no that's that's helpful.
bobmcCormack: That's helped me
Open Mainframe Project Community: Right there, that comment. Right. Isn't that relevant because listen, we're trying to drive experimentation on the platform and
We've taken a step.
Open Mainframe Project Community: To to inhibit that
bobmcCormack: With this choice. Why did we take
Open Mainframe Project Community: That step what what
Open Mainframe Project Community: are we hoping to achieve in
Randall Ness: That step.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is kind of the question you
Open Mainframe Project Community: Helped me
Form. Yeah.
bobmcCormack: And maybe their sales aren't that good. I don't know.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, but
Open Mainframe Project Community: This is is that is that the answer to that.
Randall Ness: That problem. I
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's hard.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's hard to imagine that is
Open Mainframe Project Community: For me, but yeah. Okay.
bobmcCormack: Good.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah. But that gives me the right question to be asking
Open Mainframe Project Community: Of that and
bobmcCormack: The other aspect is some for spark processing is the large amount of data for it to be tested with such as from data world, which is the state of Virginia.
bobmcCormack: financial data. So what we were working with Randall, we sat down and we did an analysis of
bobmcCormack: The space on the Viacom system.
bobmcCormack: And a bit tight on you assess and it looks rather fat on the MDS side of the house. So we did a trial of moving data from data world via windows unzipping in
Randall Ness: The UNIX system services.
bobmcCormack: And then copy it across to me. Yes, using
bobmcCormack: A utility with a conversion sub parameter and that all seemed to go. OK. So the that that that path is usable.
bobmcCormack: It's a fair bit of data right spit suspect more north of 10 gig or more, but we just gotta wait at the moment, till we get some sort of direction where the spark is going to, you know, ignite or not.
bobmcCormack: So that's my last diatribe today.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's not little that's a substantial just like everyone before you. This is me just say this is I've been kind of
Open Mainframe Project Community: A wall. Like I said, for a little bit and joining up here and hearing
Open Mainframe Project Community: The progress and the focus on exactly the right things is just
Randall Ness: encouraging to me.
Randall Ness: We
Neil Beesley: read data from me. So do we have to read it from the USS CSS file.
bobmcCormack: It depends on the script.
bobmcCormack: So we could you know do it with pointing to the the DD
bobmcCormack: In the script or pointing
bobmcCormack: It to the USS
bobmcCormack: folder so
bobmcCormack: Now this that
Open Mainframe Project Community: Spices always a problem you're using, but you're talking there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: About spark specifically are we talking about JS.
Randall Ness: OS.
Open Mainframe Project Community: As an access crunch probably spark.
bobmcCormack: Thinking in your scripts that
bobmcCormack: Invoke Scala.
bobmcCormack: To invoke spark.
bobmcCormack: Yeah, are you does I'm not familiar with the PSC for Spark doesn't rely on the MDS s
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think it is. I think
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think, I think.
Randall Ness: That's the
bobmcCormack: primary way that
bobmcCormack: You have been marketing.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's Jesus
Open Mainframe Project Community: And
Open Mainframe Project Community: So yeah, we, you can use
Randall Ness: Scala.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That goes directly without
Open Mainframe Project Community: There's no spark access directly
Open Mainframe Project Community: To Jay's ass but again that's a license.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's part of the j in the Java NZ licenses license there, but it does leave the spark tissue somewhat separate
Us.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes. Yeah, if we have to go that route.
bobmcCormack: Oh, and the other comment. I should have added in there was some
bobmcCormack: Craig books, one of our developers down here is a liaising with the HR high level assembler chap in Winchester.
bobmcCormack: And it's good progress so shortly. Mom, hoping that we'll have a PDF for that out for the high level assembly toolkit so that all neva lost in the short term to assemble. You are 20 on Viacom once they put the PDF on so that's pleasing.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Excellent. Actually, that raises the question for me.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Have we had any progress meal on making contact with our the guy that's more the recruiting recruiting are specific individual in Perth that we want. Who's has Jay and I experience with assembler, but we made any progress on that recruiting effort specifically
Neil Beesley: on LinkedIn and send a few messages, nothing.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Because he never checked LinkedIn.
Neil Beesley: He might be one of these people that
Except one on
Open Mainframe Project Community: One well. Okay, then let's let's let's continue to work that specific recruiting
Randall Ness: Effort and
Open Mainframe Project Community: Maybe we should get Sandy's very good at recruiting. Maybe we needed sandy down to Perth to
Do this work.
Ian: You talked about David Stevens.
Neil Beesley: Yeah yeah yeah
Randall Ness: Isn't
Ian: Isn't IBM. Uh, yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We need to we need to invite him to the next.
Randall Ness: TLC will will
Neil Beesley: Will have a work session. I don't know what the reason IBM anymore.
Ian: Now he's now.
Neil Beesley: He's an IBM
Neil Beesley: Historically, yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes. Yeah, but he's where we don't care. We'd love. This is an open source community.
Neil Beesley: Yeah yeah
Neil Beesley: Yeah, but ya know
Randall Ness: For definitely
Neil Beesley: It's just I haven't had any success. I've had more success with them call has been helping me
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes. That's excellent. Okay, there's progress. That's good.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, we already did the I think some of the spark update and the Randall of icon update. So on Andrea's issue here. She said something something dash kip
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think. So we're down to the last five minutes of our session. So I'm supposed to say something. Let me, let me just, you know, kind of, in conclusion,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Like I said, just a minute ago. This is great activity. I love hearing what we're working on the successes were having the issues were running into we're running into issues.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And all the issues we're running into are the right issues to be running into their things we want to bust through the things we want to solve the things we want to improve. We want to fix.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So the issues having issues is not a problem because if you don't, if you don't run into issues you're not really making any progress on anything meaningful. So this is I i I'm enjoying being part of these this group and and the work we're doing
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any other concluding thoughts, any, any questions, any other items Andrea anything I missed
Andrea Orth: Um, nothing that I can think of. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I went through your agenda. You can steer me wherever I go.
Andrea Orth: Well, we only have four minutes so
Open Mainframe Project Community: Very, very, very good.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay. Two weeks from now we'll meet again and that will be followed by the
Randall Ness: Infrastructure meeting.
Ian: And Andrea drop me a line. If you want to organize the time
Ian: In the next
Ian: Couple of days.
Andrea Orth: Yes.
Sandy Peresie: Oh, I do have one of one more update I forgot. I'm sorry.
Sandy Peresie: I meant to put it on the thing I I attended the Zoe.
Sandy Peresie: Technical steering committee meeting today and introduce myself.
Sandy Peresie: And they've offered, you know, if we want to
Sandy Peresie: Walk through or anything. Um,
Sandy Peresie: You know, they're more than happy to walk us through whatever you know they're doing. Um, but basically they had brought up a couple of packages that they're using or planning on using for their code. And I think we probably want to look into these packages, um, for open source third there.
Sandy Peresie: Things like Sonar. Sonar cube.
Sandy Peresie: Coverity and sonic alright to do checking to make sure there's no issues with the code or putting out
Sandy Peresie: Is anybody word have any of those things.
Ian: I've used the sono on in disguise. IBM hundred products.
Ian: I have temporary license for the
Randall Ness: Rub
Ian: Some of that stuff and scans everything
Ian: That really annoying.
Ian: But yeah
Ian: Good to use something like that.
Andrea Orth: Yeah, my employer uses the Sonar. Sonar cube.
Sandy Peresie: Okay, so, um,
Sandy Peresie: That's an open source right
Sandy Peresie: I don't know, I haven't really I haven't really looked into any of them, but
Sandy Peresie: I know that Coverity someone brought that up today.
Sandy Peresie: Um, you know, I think.
Sandy Peresie: I think we probably at some point in time, want to want to make a recommendation that, you know, things have to be something has to be used to make sure that we have good code being built right
Open Mainframe Project Community: In you have brought this up before sandy my comments and my prototype spark code. We're not adequate. So you have right to continue to bring this up.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Because I haven't fixed my comments in the spark code yet.
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, this is about that. I don't think this does
Sandy Peresie: Comments, though I think it does more, you know, testing for vulnerabilities and I know we talked about black duck last time.
Sandy Peresie: You know, but this is, this isn't this actually runs against the log files are the builds the actual build file. Yeah, so it just something to think about. You know, I know we're not there yet, but it's something to think about. I'm gonna look into that Coverity
Randall Ness: Um,
Sandy Peresie: And I think we'd probably have a, an expert here on sonar if it's free. We should probably be doing that, um,
Sandy Peresie: And then there's snack to
Andrea Orth: Right there, there is a free and open source version of some argue
Sandy Peresie: Okay.
Ian: I'm just, it's also a tool called cold.
Ian: Oh it scans your Java looking for
Ian: For errors.
Yeah.
Ian: Spot errors and there's a great little plugin so you can run it as part of your build as well.
Ian: Spot hero something that's called something like oh
Sandy Peresie: Yeah, that sounds a lot like Coverity that they were talking about today. Would you would you runs as part of the build.
Sandy Peresie: And actually there's in your in your code and stuff. Things that you know where you have like a possible bleed or something along those lines that I'm probably using the wrong, you know, memory bleed. I'm probably using the wrong terminology, because I don't know I'm Java that mature.
Sandy Peresie: But you know, it's probably worth making sure that we have some type of a standard
Sandy Peresie: Usage
Sandy Peresie: When people start to contribute.
Ian: Sure.
Ian: I think an
Ian: Initial
Ian: Release of code, we could well say, yeah, this is it. And look at these thousands of things that get reported by these tools. That's one of the things we need to clean up.
Sandy Peresie: That first dishes. I like it.
Ian: Buried in all these things. Yes. Yeah.
Sandy Peresie: Okay, that's all.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Thank you Andy appreciate your work in that space. Sure.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Hey, thanks everybody. Appreciate the time
Neil Beesley: Tonight.